In this concept, we will learn about error handling in Solidity.
Every programming language needs to implement some kind of error handling.
We will learn how to throw exceptions
using revert(), require(condition), and assert(condition).
There are two types of errors in general,
the first type are the run-time errors due to some EVM or operations error,
the second type are the application errors.
Now, these are throne due to some condition in the code or some wrong data.
Now, how do we handle errors.
This is totally based upon the developer of the contract,
who can decide how to communicate this error back to the caller of the contract?
The contract can either return a value to the caller to
communicate the error or the contract can emit events to relate the error.
It could also be combination of returning a value and also emitting events.
Or of course the preferred way is to throw an exception.
In this concept, we will learn about throwing exceptions back.
Moving on, one thing I wanted to mention is that
Solidity does not support Try-Catch mechanism.
This means that once an exception is thrown it will just be passed over to the caller.
When the contract code throws an exception it leads to rolling back of
all the changes that happened in that transaction before the exception was thrown.
Know ethers are sent.
All the set ethers are also sent back.
Gas is used, which means that any gas that was used
prior to throwing the exception the caller will still have to pay for that gas.
One another important thing I wanted to mention,
that even though this transaction was unsuccessful,
it will still get recorded on the Blockchain.
In Solidity exceptions are thrown using the revert function, let's talk about that.
Once an exception is thrown,
the contract execution will stop and
the exception is propagated all the way back to the caller.
Also, all unused gas will be sent back.
Now, there used to be a throw statement but that is deprecated in solidity, now,
sent a true statement is used,
it uses up all the gas that is sent in the transaction call,
so avoid using true statements.
There are two additional global functions that can be
used to to exceptions, require(condition) and Assert(condition).
Both these functions take conditional expressions as their arguments,
if the condition is not met, that is,
it leads to a false, an exception will be thrown.
Require throws revert like exceptions,
which means all used gas is sent back, whereas,
assert throws through like exceptions where all the gases used up.
Assert is mostly used for internal testing,
require is mostly used for throwing exceptions back to the caller.
So, if the Boolean expression returns to be a false,
then the entire function is immediately
exited and no changes are made to the contract at all.
Now, this is a great way to make sure that
some condition is met before the function is executed.
Like in the first example that you see on the screen,
we are checking if the msg.sender is the owner of the contract,
only then the function will be executed
or an exception will be thrown back to the caller.
In the second example we are checking if the msg.value
sent along the transaction call is greater than 0.1 ether,
only then proceed otherwise, throw an exception.
Now, let's look at a simple contract that implements error handling so we
can get a little bit better understanding on how error handling works in Solidity.
Okay, so we have a sample contract here,
and the name of the contract is exceptionContract starts with the keyword contract.
Now, if you see we are having a public variable here called
lastCaller and we're just setting a value of none to it that is it.
Is a public variable string type lastCaller, setting a value to none.
Then, we have a function called a revertBehavior.
Now, this function takes in a name of as
an argument and sets the lastCaller variable to this argument received.
So, whatever the argument we're passing in the function we're setting
the lastCaller to that variable or the argument that's received in.
Now, what we're trying to do in this function is also,
since remember we do not have a.length property and strings,
so we're converting it in bytes,
by using this conversion.
If you remember from the concept we're taking a name,
putting into brackets, enclosing with the word bytes,
and then checking the length of that.
If the length comes to be zero we're reverting or throwing an exception.
So, all it's doing is that,
if someone sends as an empty argument but some kind of argument but an empty,
there's nothing in the strings it's going to throw an exception.
Okay, and also wanted to mention
is that there's another way of doing it using the require statement.
I'm just going to show you both here and I can always
uncomment it but we're already doing it that's the reason I have commented,
so this works perfectly fine too.
So, we can replace this whole line of code,
this value, this value,
and just check this.
Okay, so what we can do is we're converting,
we're just saying require condition inside the brackets,
we're checking if this length is greater than zero,
then you can just return true.
So, same things so either you can use a revert kind of thing,
where you're doing something here
or you can just throw an exception right before you've done anything yet.
Also wanted to mention is that in this case,
we're setting the value of this.
So, remember when I talked about and I explained that to you that
anytime you throw a revert all the changes will revert back,
so that is what is going on in the first revert behavior function,
the lastCaller is being changed to
the input argument and then an exception is thrown after that.
If an exception is thrown the last quarter reverts back
to its original value does nullifying defect.
So, let's now look at how this works,
I'm going to deploy this contract.
Once we deployed this contract,
now let's pull it down and see what we have,
so as of now lastCaller is nothing,
so we're just going to call the value and set to none. Got it?
Now, we're going to call the function,
let's give it a value "Udacity".
Then, we call this function.
Okay? Now, once we call this function,
if you see this is not going to return true,
that means that exception will not be thrown in
this case because this condition is not met here,
so if I call the lastCaller function now it's set to this value if you Udacity.
Now, let's call this function again with an empty string.
So, remember any time you pass arguments here string type
you have to use double quotes because it is expecting JSON.
So, revert and now I'm going to call the function again, okay.
So, now if you see it sets the value of this right here,
so it should be empty strings but now towards an exception.
Okay. It's still the same, what it did,
it set it to empty strings and after that it
checks if its value equal to zero and it's going revert.
So, to roll it back to initial value of Udacity even if it was changed right here.
So, that is how exceptions work,
you can use require, you can use revert.
So, again play around with this piece of code and get
comfortable with how exceptions are thrown and Solidity.